DOCSP-27376: removed support for dot notation in find* (#491)
mongodb/docs-node: source/fundamentals/typescript.txt

     classification: { genus: "Canis" | "Felis"; color: string };
   }

The following code snippet correctly raises a type error when setting
the ``classification.color`` to a ``number`` type in an update
operation:

.. code-block:: typescript

   await collection.updateOne({ name: "Garfield" }, { $set: { "classification.color": 101 } });

The type error raised by the preceding code snippet is as follows:

.. code-block:: none

   Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'string'.
   
Dot Notation in Find Operations
```````````````````````````````

> Starting in version 5.0, the {+driver-short+} does not provide type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in version 5.0, by default, the {+driver-short+} does not provide type
```

safety for *find operations* that search on fields expressed in dot
notation. When you construct a filter to pass to a find method, such as
``find()`` or ``findOneAndUpdate()``, your code compiles even if you
specify a value of an incorrect type for a field expressed in dot

> notation.

Author: moved list of methods to admonition and reworded for clarity.

The following code compiles, even though the value of

> ``classification.color`` should be a string:

Author: how do you feel about the way I reworded this instead?

.. code-block:: typescript

>    await collection.find({ "classification.color": false })

Author: Sure! Updated to `findOneAndDelete()`

> Even though support for this checking is removed by default, you can
> enable type-checking by constructing filters as ``StrictFilter`` types.

Reviewer: I: We probably want to mention that this is the default setting earlier in the section (see comment above). With that done, we can simplify this sentence.

```suggestion
You can enable type safety for fields in dot notation by constructing filters as ``StrictFilter`` types.
```

.. warning::
   
   Use of the ``StrictFilter`` type to create filters is experimental and currently has
   unknown performance implications.

> The following code does not compile because the filter is assigned as a
> ``StrictFilter`` type, which causes the driver to report a type error
> because the value of ``classification.color`` should be a string:

Reviewer: I: Sentence is a little long

```suggestion
In the following code sample, the search filter is assigned a
``StrictFilter`` type. Because the value of ``classification.color`` should be a string,
the {+driver-short+} reports a type error when a boolean is used:
```

Author: Reworded.

     classification: { genus: "Canis" | "Felis"; color: string };
   }

The following code snippet correctly raises a type error when setting
the ``classification.color`` to a ``number`` type in an update
operation:

.. code-block:: typescript

   await collection.updateOne({ name: "Garfield" }, { $set: { "classification.color": 101 } });

The type error raised by the preceding code snippet is as follows:

.. code-block:: none

   Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'string'.
   
Dot Notation in Find Operations
```````````````````````````````

Starting in version 5.0, by default, the {+driver-short+} does not provide type
safety for find operations that search on fields expressed in dot
notation. When you construct a filter to pass to a find method, the
driver will not raise a type error even if you specify an incorrectly
typed value for a field expressed in dot notation.

.. note::

   The following methods comprise find operations:

   - ``find()``
   - ``findOne()``
   - ``findOneAndDelete()``
   - ``findOneAndReplace()``

>    - ``findOneAndUpdate()``

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:

For consistency, we should standardize "find operations" to match this list for all drivers. For example, the golang docs only mention find and findOne:
https://github.com/mongodb/docs-golang/blob/master/source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve.txt#L59-L60

Author: changed the language for this list, but agreed- this should be standardized. Making a ticket for myself.

     classification: { genus: "Canis" | "Felis"; color: string };
   }

The driver does not raise a type error for the following code sample,
even though the value of ``classification.color`` is a boolean
instead of a string:

.. code-block:: typescript

   await collection.findOneAndDelete({ "classification.color": false })

You can enable type-checking by constructing filters as ``StrictFilter`` types.

.. warning::
   

>    Use of the ``StrictFilter`` type to create filters is experimental and currently has
>    unknown performance implications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Use of the ``StrictFilter`` type to create filters is experimental and may have type
   errors in places where there should be none.
```

We aren't worried about the performance, it is more about the usability hurdles that can get in the way of writing a "correct query" from the server's perspective but that our typescript type can't handle.

In the following code sample, the filter is assigned a
``StrictFilter`` type. Given this filter type, the {+driver-short+}
reports a type error because the value of ``classification.color`` is a
boolean instead of a string:

.. code-block:: typescript

   const filterPredicate: StrictFilter<ClassificationPet> = { "classification.color": false };

>    await collection.findOneAndDelete(filterPredicate);

Reviewer 3: We also had dot-notation support for UpdateFilter now moved to StrictUpdateFilter, I'm not sure if we need code snippets. It would be the same kind of migration for those that wanted to get back the strict behavior (which is also experimental):

```ts
// v4.x, compiler error
pets.updateOne({}, { $set: { "classification.color": false } })
// v5.x, no error
pets.updateOne({}, { $set: { "classification.color": false } })
// v5.x, compiler error
const update: StrictUpdateFilter<ClassificationPet> = { $set: { "classification.color": false } }
pets.updateOne({}, update)
```

Dot Notation in Find Operations
```````````````````````````````

Starting in version 5.0, by default, the {+driver-short+} does not provide type
safety for find operations that search on fields expressed in dot
notation. When you construct a filter to pass to a find method, the
driver will not raise a type error even if you specify an incorrectly
typed value for a field expressed in dot notation.

.. note::

>    The following methods comprise find operations:

Reviewer: I: [Style Guide recommends not using "comprise" at all](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#c) (even using it correctly, which is weird)

S:
```suggestion
   The following methods are considered find operations:
```
Or:
```suggestion
   The following methods are find operations:
```
Or something similar.
